## <font color="#92d050">Data Modeling</font>  🧬

A data model represents a business's data and acts as a blueprint and foundation of a database. A flawed data model leads to a flawed database and programs.

he data model is a conceptual representation of data objects, their associations, and the rules governing them.

• Data model emphasizes on <font color="#ffff00">what data is needed</font> and <font color="#ffff00">how it should be organized</font> instead of what operations need to be performed on the data. 
	Ex: House Plan

<font color="#00b0f0">The two types of Data Models techniques are </font>
	1.  Entity Relationship (E-R) Model 
	2. UML (Unified Modelling Language)

## <font color="#00b0f0">Types of Data Models:</font>

#### <font color="#ffc000">1. Conceptual Data Model:</font>
- **Defines**: WHAT the system contains.
- **Creators**: Business stakeholders and Data Architects.
- **Purpose**: Organize, scope, and define business concepts and rules.

#### <font color="#ffc000">2.  Logical Data Model:</font>
- **Defines**: HOW the system should be implemented regardless of the DBMS.
- **Creators**: Data Architects and Business Analysts.
- **Purpose**: Develop a technical map of rules and data structures.

#### <font color="#ffc000">3. Physical Data Model:</font>
- **Defines**: HOW the system will be implemented using a specific DBMS.
- **Creators**: DBAs and developers.
- **Purpose**: Actual implementation of the database.

## Database design process

1. Phase 1-Requirements Collection and analysis 
2. Phase 2-Conceptual Design 
3. Phase 3-Logical Design 
4. Phase 4-Physical Design

## Types of Data Models